In the last video we got kind of a proof that we can get this testing setup to work correctly but if
you look really closely at the tests we executed you'll notice something just a little bit strange.
Let me show you what I mean.
I'm gonna go back to the next e-mail file.
I'm going to delete the input inside there to make my test fail.
Once again I'm gonna save this file.
I'll go back over to my terminal.
I'll run to me at once again and take a look at the message that we get here.
We get a very large error message.
You might recall that we spent a little bit of time to make sure that they in time and test failed.
We took just the message of the year.
So like just that part right there and printed it out in some nice red text and kind of indented it
as well.
We actually spent like two or three videos doing that.
Well you'll now notice that we are back to seeing a very large error message when this test fails instead.
In addition you'll also notice very incorrectly that the test itself was marked as passing.
So it seems like everything is kind of working but not quite working.
So what's going on here.
Well let's take another look at the code that we've written so far.
I'm going to go back to the apt dot test out James file so inside of here We marked this function as
being async because we are calling render which is definitely an async function.
Remember we have to wait some amount of time for j ust Dom to load up this index dot H and I'll file
off our hard drive past all the e-mail inside of it and then build up that kind of fake representation
of the Dom that all takes some amount of time.
So this function right here definitely has to be async in nature so the issue is if we take a look at
where this function actually gets executed let's go back over to our runner dot J as file which is where
that function actually gets executed.
So here's runner dot James.
Here's the run test function inside of there is where we defined the ET statement.
There it is right there.
So notice how inside of here whenever we invoke it there's the function that actually gets called in
inside.
We'll notice that we call f in right there directly.
So when we call f in right there we did not put on any kind of a kind of anything to wait for asynchronous
code.
We essentially say call that function.
It was passed in as the second argument and then immediately go on to run the next line of code.
So what that really does with this kind of async nature is it executes the effin right there it executes
the function that causes this function right here to execute.
So this function starts to run.
And the first thing it does is it says okay I'm going to go and tried to call that render function.
So it goes off or on some code inside of render and eventually gets that point time where J system says
Okay hold up just pause for a moment I need to go find this index to e-mail file load it up and pass
its contents at the point that j ust on says Hey wait hold up.
We can essentially imagine that we have all of our code kind of return because of the async nature.
So kind of all flows back through and gets back to right here and the next line after J ust on says
give me just a minute that gets executed.
Is this console log then at some points I'm the future j ust I'm actually says oh hey I got this indexed
I use a file everything's good to go and we actually take the results of that and assign it to the DOM
variable we then go on to the input right here and then run our assertion.
So the net effect.
Long story short is that right now we call the it statement.
We then immediately do our console log.
Then at some point time later we actually run the asserts or we actually do the check and run the Assert
statement.
And so that's right now why we are seeing the green.
Okay message and then a little bit later totally imperceptible to you and I.
Because it happens so quickly we see the error message that occurs during a search.
So in order to fix this we just have to add in some check or some something essentially to make sure
that we await for this it statement right here to actually finish execution to do so.
We just have to go back over to our runner really simple really straightforward F and right here that
is an async function now it contains some asynchronous code so all we have to do is await it we'll make
sure we mark the enclosing function as async as well and that's it.
That's all we have to do.
All right.
Let's save this now.
I'm going to go back over.
I'm gonna run me again.
And now we'll see the correct error message because now we are correctly waiting on the asynchronous
nature of that it statement.
So this definitely looks better.
I'm going to go back over to index dot e-mail file and I'm going to restore that input element really
quickly to make sure my test passes again.
I'll save this file.
I'm going to execute me again.
And now I can see everything is passing very good OK.
That definitely is going to prevent something that we fixed up that definitely had to be fixed up.
Let's take another pause right here the next video we're going start to add in some tests around interacting
with the text input and the form itself.
Make sure we can submit it and once you do that we're gonna see yet another little issue up here so
quick pause and I'll see you in just a minute.